Okay, so the next thing to take
a look at are media queries,
because media queries are an important
part of responsive web design, or RWD.
And there are two particular ways
that we use media queries when we
are working with responsive designs.
And those two ways are mobile-first or
desktop-first.
And you may have heard these terms before,
they are actually attached to certain
approaches that we take
with media queries.
So mobile first is typically the way that
we teach people to lay out webpages.
So we're going to put all of our styles
that pertain to our mobile display,
our narrowest width devices,
will have not been a media query.
They are the defaults for
the particular page design.
And then we're gonna use a series
of min-width media queries,
so minimum widths.
And that is going to stack on styles that
are going to override what came before.
So we may have a media query that
overrides some of the settings that we had
in mobile.
Obviously those media queries can also
add additional styles that were not
present before in order
to lay out the webpage.
So we are going to order those
media queries from the smallest to
the largest number.
So we may start with a media query,
let's say it's 500 pixels,
then we're gonna go to 700 pixels,
then we're gonna go to 900 pixels.
You would never say 900 and
then 300 and then 500,
you would not skip around between numbers.
You're gonna put them in numerical
order from smallest to largest.
Make sense?
Desktop media queries take
the opposite approach.
So what that means is for your widest
monitors, those are your default styles,
not inside of media queries.
And then we're gonna use a series
of max-width media queries and
progressively smaller numbers
to override what came before.
So now you're gonna go from
your max-width media query for
900 pixels to 700 pixels to 500 to 300,
in order to change your
styles as you go down.
So, which is better?
Anybody know the answer to that,
with the million dollar consulting phrase?
>> Depends.
>> It depends, exactly.
Yes, it depends which is better.
So it depends on what you have
as you're starting code base,
it depends on how you're coding
this from the beginning.
What I tend to do is I use a lot of
desktop-first media queries often
with navigation bars,
because we go from usually very simple
styling on a navigation bar on a desktop.
So something that's fairly complicated
with a hamburger button on mobile devices,
it's actually easier to go down in size.
For other parts of the page,
we may use mobile-first media queries
to go layout the whole web page.
And there's nothing wrong with mixing
both of these techniques when you lay out
webpages, make sense?
Okay, yep, questions?
>> I tend to like the mobile-first
as far as like the layouts go,
because I always start with the content.
>> Yep.
>> So
I get what you're saying as far
as navbar particular case, but
usually you wanna start with
the content-first and not navigation.
So it's like mobile fits my
brain better and it feels like-
>> Yeah, and in fact,
that leads into my next slide,
which is the concept of website planning.
Back in the day when mobile
devices were new and
we were trying to figure out how
to make these work on devices,
what Mark is talking about was actually
a matter of making a major mindset switch.
To that point in time,
Circa 2010, 2011, 2012,
people had always thought about how
the page looks on the big monitor, right?
And your marketing department people
who are determining the design of this
website, they have very big monitors,
right?
So they had this beautiful layout in mind
for very large device, and what they
tended to do was then remove content as
they moved to a smaller mobile device.
And what LukeW, or LukeW Wrobleski,
[LAUGH] did I say that right?
Sorry, Luke.
What he had advocated was the concept of
mobile-first when it came to content.
In other words, let's plan the content
to fit on a small form device.
So if it works on a mobile device,
we're only saying what we have
to say on our webpage, and
then we can take that information and
spread it out as we go larger.
But we're not taking content and
removing it from the page,
which is the model that
we had previously had,
sort of how we started working
on responsive content in 2011.
So again, usually you'll see me working
desktop-first on things like nav bars,
but will most likely use mobile-first
when we do page layouts.
So which is better?
When planning content use
mobile first approaches, and
you can absolutely mix your approaches
depending on the parts of the web page.
As I said, max-width for nav bars and
min-width for the rest of the page.
And so, one of the things that I'm
gonna show you now though, just so
you get a sense of how
a desktop-first media query works,
is that we start with a desktop layout.
This is not as common as it used to be,
back ten years ago,
this was your number
one consulting project.
Somebody would give you their old website,
it would be desktop-based, and
they would say,
please make this work on a mobile device,
and the fastest, easiest way to do that
was with desktop-first approaches.